In this video we'll cover the installation of the Sencha Command tool and the Sencha Touch framework.
1. Open a terminal window
2. Check if Debian installation is up to date:
$ sudo apt-get update
(Note: the dollar sign ($) serves to indicate the command line, don't type it)
3. Enter password for sudo:
$ developer
(if there are updates, they are installed ...)
For Sencha Command we have to install the Ruby compiler, because Sencha Cmd needs Ruby for the CSS compiler (SASS/Compass).
To install Ruby:
$ sudo apt-get install ruby
Confirm question if you want to continue:
$ y
(Packet files are installed...)
Now download Sencha Command from the Sencha website at:
http://www.sencha.com/products/sencha-cmd/download
For the Debian installation, click on Linux 32-bit. The respective files is downloaded.
If you have a slow connection, time for a coffee ...
Change into the download folder:
$ cd Downloads
Check if the files are there:
$ ls
Unzip the archive:
$ unzip SenchaCmd-4.0.2.67-linux.run.zip
The zip file is unzipped.
We have to change the execution rights on the file before we can execute it.
Change the rights
$ chmod 755 SenchaCmd.4.0.2.67-linux.run
Check again:
$ ls
The file is now executable.
Now its important that Sencha Command is not installed under sudo.
Therefore, exit terminal:
$ exit
Open a new terminal.
Change into Downloads folder again:
$ cd Downloads
Show folder contents:
$ ls
Execute the file:
$ ./SenchaCmd-4.0.2.67-linux.run
(./ is important!)
The installation starts and the setup dialog appears:
- Click "Next".
- Check "I accept the agreement".
- Accept Installation Directory, click "Next".
-Click "Next" again on Ready to Install.
Sencha Cmd is installed ...
Click "Finish" to finish the installation.
Now let's test if Sencha can be called:
(Note: KQC tries to call sencha in the download folder and in the home folder but since that does not work, we don't need to follow that procedure)
Let's close the terminal window again:
$ exit
Then, open a new terminal:
Type
$ sencha
Sencha is installed.
As you can see, the tool offers quite a few options, categories, commands etc.
Next, we will install the Sencha Touch framework:
To download Sencha Touch, visit
http://www.sencha.com/products/touch/download
It's important that you choose the open source version, which is available unter the GNU GPLv3 license (not the commercial version!)
Click on Download and download of the package will start...
Depending on your internet connection, have a cup of coffee while the download continues ...
In terminal, change into the Download folder again:
$ cd Downloads
List the content of the folder:
$ ls
The Sencha Touch SDK is there: sencha-touch-2.3.1a-gpl.zip
Unzip the file:
$ unzip sencha-touch-2.3.1a-gpl.zip
The package is unzipped...
Show the contents of the Download folder.
$ ls
You will see a new folder called "touch-2.3.1"
Now, we can create our project structure.
Change into the touch-2.3.1 folder:
$ cd touch-2.3.1
Show folder contents:
$ ls
Now, we'll generate our first Sencha Touch project.
To do so. enter the following command:
sencha -sdk (path_to_SDK) generate app (app_name) (path_to_app), i.e.
$ sencha -sdk /home/developer/Downloads/touch-2.3.1/ generate app Helloworld /home/developer/example/helloworld
The new app is generated ...
Now, we will call the Sencha Cmd web server.First, we have to change into the project folder
$ cd /home/developer/example/helloworld
(this is the short version, KQC does the same in individual steps)
Start web server:
$ sencha web start
The jetty server is started ...
Let's change to a browser ...
Call localhost on port 1841 in the browser address line:
localhost:1841
Your newly generated app is opened ....
Brief check:
Click on "Get Started", back to "Welcome".
Finished!